quicken2beancount
=================

Python program to translate a Quicken instance into a [Beancount](http://furius.ca/beancount) file.

Translating a complete Quicken database instance into Beancount
(or any other double-entry accounting
system like [GnuCash](https://www.gnucash.org/)
or [Ledger](https://www.ledger-cli.org) is painful to say the least.

Quicken is a single-entry accounting system, which means that amounts
can appear out of or disappear into thin air.  In a double-entry accounting
system you can't put amounts in an account without taking it out of another
account.

Quicken can export (almost) all of its data into a .qif file.
Unfortunately there are a
number of challenges in processing said file:
* Quicken uses "categories" to categorize expense and income transactions
within an account rather than detailed expense and income accounts. 
* No linkage between transactions which transfer funds from one account
to another is provided
* The .qif file does not include realized gains
* No record of currencies or exchange rates
* A .qif file may contain corrupted data due to bugs in the export process
* Accounts/categories are not identified as Asset/Liability/Expense/Income
* The .qif file format is awkward and has evolved over time

This project includes:
* a module for parsing .qif files (qifparser.py)
* a program for converting a .qif file into a beancount file (q2b.py)

This is not a turn-key solution.  q2b.py will undoubtedly need to be configured
to translate account, category, and currency names for your circumstances.

q2b.py expects the .qif file to contain all accounts from the Quicken database,
unlike other utilities I've seen which process only a single account at a time.
You can select "all accounts" and all categories of information when exporting
the data from Quicken.

qifparser.py has been tested with the QIF files generated by Quicken 2015.
Other Quicken versions may have slightly different quirks.

Although q2b.py internally tracks stock lots (in order to calculate realized
gains), it does not include explicit lot pricing information in the generated
Beancount file.  This is because Beancount (as of this writing) has a sorting
bug (#354) that breaks the lot handling in rare cases.

q2b.py could be "easily" adjusted to emit Ledger, GnuCash, or hLedger
files instead of Beancount files.  

Good luck!
